[KOGITO-3767] - Process Saga Example (#438)
kiegroup/kogito-examples: process-saga-quarkus/README.md

# Saga Process example with Quarkus

## Description

Service to demonstrate how to implement Saga pattern based on BPMN process with Kogito. The used example is based on a
 Trip reservation process with a sequence of steps that could represent calls to external services/microservices.
 All of each steps `book hotel`, `book flight` and `create payment` should be executed to confirm a Trip, if any of the

>   steps fail, than a compensation for each completed step should be executed to undo the operation or to keep the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  steps fail, then a compensation for each completed step should be executed to undo the operation or to keep the
```

>    process on a consistent state. For instance, the book hotel step, should cancel the hotel booking. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   process in a consistent state. For instance, the book hotel step, should cancel the hotel booking. The
```

    compensations for the steps are represented in the process using a boundary `Intermediate Catching Compensation
Event` attached to the respective step to be compensated.          

<img src="docs/images/boundary-compensation.png" height="150px"/>

The catching compensation events can be triggered by an `Intermediate Throwing Compensation Event` or the
 ` Compensation End Event` in any point of the process that represents an error or inconsistent state, like a response
  from a service.
 
 <img src="docs/images/throwing-compensation.png" height="100px"/>

The steps and compensations actions in the process example are implemented as service tasks using a Java class under

>  the `src` of the project, and for this example they are just mocking responses, but they in a real use case they

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 the `src` of the project, and for this example they are just mocking responses, but in a real use case they
```

## Installing and Running

### Prerequisites

You will need:
  - Java 11+ installed
  - Environment variable JAVA_HOME set accordingly
  - Maven 3.6.2+ installed

When using native image compilation, you will also need:
  - [GraalVM 19.1.1](https://github.com/oracle/graal/releases/tag/vm-19.1.1) installed
  - Environment variable GRAALVM_HOME set accordingly
  - Note that GraalVM native image compilation typically requires other packages (glibc-devel, zlib-devel and gcc) to be installed too.  You also need 'native-image' installed in GraalVM (using 'gu install native-image'). Please refer to [GraalVM installation documentation](https://www.graalvm.org/docs/reference-manual/aot-compilation/#prerequisites) for more details.

### Compile and Run in Local Dev Mode

```
mvn clean compile quarkus:dev
```

### Package and Run in JVM mode

```
mvn clean package
java -jar target/process-saga-quarkus-runner.jar
```

### Package and Run using Local Native Image
Note that this requires GRAALVM_HOME to point to a valid GraalVM installation

```
mvn clean package -Pnative
```

To run the generated native executable, generated in `target/`, execute

```
./target/process-saga-quarkus-runner
```

> Note: This does not yet work on Windows, GraalVM and Quarkus should be rolling out support for Windows soon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Native builds does not yet work on Windows, GraalVM and Quarkus should be rolling out support for Windows soon.
```

Reviewer: GraalVM is only required for native compilation. For JVM based builds any JDK8 or 11+ distribution should be fine

 should respond with an error. The attribute is basically the simple class name of the service.

Example:

```json
{
    "tripId" : "03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa",
    "failService" : "PaymentService"    
}
```
Curl command (using the JSON object above):

```sh
curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST http://localhost:8080/trip -d '{"tripId" : "03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa", "failService" : "PaymentService"}' 
```

Response example:

```json
{
    "id": "623f87c1-03ab-42e5-a1f4-e89b26cda769",
    "paymentResponse": {
        "type": "ERROR",
        "resourceId": "76d77805-3b28-445d-b38d-5796930d9996"
    },
    "tripResponse": {
        "type": "ERROR",
        "resourceId": "03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa"
    },
    "failService": "PaymentService",
    "hotelResponse": {
        "type": "SUCCESS",
        "resourceId": "7ff1b4df-f999-4306-bc1d-e45cc7206695"
    },
    "tripId": "03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa",
    "flightResponse": {
        "type": "SUCCESS",
        "resourceId": "e2441697-f548-48be-aa1c-120e71bcd488"
    }
}
```

> In the console executing the application you can check the log it with the executed steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the console executing the application you can check the executed steps by following the logs.
```

```text

> 2020-11-05 16:51:10,653 INFO  [org.kie.kog.HotelService] (executor-thread-199) Book Hotel for t 03e6cf79-3301-434b-b5e1-d6899b5639aa

Reviewer: based on the code, the log message should say `trip` not just `t`

Author: you are right, and I need to update the log messages, they were copied before the last changes
